+++
title = 'Free software, free world'
date = 2008-01-23
+++
The concept of a free world is near and dear to those advocates of FOSS.  
In recent years free software advocacy has grown in volume if not in  
momentum. Subscribers to this peculiar philosophy - that all software  
should be free, open source, and readily available to the public at  
large - seem to hold certain similarities to other philosophical  
positions.

Anarchism, for one. Libertarianism for another. But it goes deeper than  
those mere labels.

All software being freely available as a good and desirable trait of a  
society implies…nay, requires that believers subscribe to the idea  
that materialism and ownership are inherently negative concepts. In this  
they resemble some beliefs of a few Native American tribes. [Non-market economies](http://anthro.palomar.edu/economy/econ_2.htm) based on  
concepts of barter and dumb-barter, however, almost always have a  
concept of ownership behind them even if there is no currency or common  
value basis for items. In small societies, the materialistic bent of  
placing value on an item gives way to placing value on the exchange of  
the item, thereby replacing economic value with social value. In  
today’s anonymous global village, social value is of far less  
importance, and thus materialism has risen as a natural consequence.

Interestingly, the FOSS advocacy movement seems to be pushing for a  
return to social value over material value. Linus Torvalds is considered  
influential and prestigious for his uncompromising dedication,  
generosity, and competence. Bill Gates, while similarly intelligent, is  
reviled for his tremendous wealth and [reputed anti-FOSS tactics](http://www.atm.damtp.cam.ac.uk/people/mem/papers/LHCE/halloween.html). A developer’s prestige in the FOSS community is directly proportional to his or her contributions to the community.

Now, while this is all well and good and I applaud a return to social  
value over material value, there is one glaring flaw in the FOSS  
advocacy philosophy - free software doesn’t pay the bills. Some  
companies get around this by offering services to support their free  
products, but service isn’t particularly time-consuming, thus enabling  
fewer developers to support a single product and restricting the number  
of jobs available at a given company. This suggests that the entire  
software industry is either flawed in its concept or flawed in its  
execution and [gives rise to questions](http://www.linux.com/feature/37604) regarding the legitimacy and efficiency of the current paradigm.

For FOSS to become a viable methodology, the software industry must  
shift from a production-centric environment to a service-centric one.  
This is not to say that development itself must go by the wayside;  
rather, services need to be placed higher in priority than development  
so as to foster an equivalent financial return for developers and still  
promote the free usage of software. [Service industries](http://www.census.gov/econ/www/servmenu.html) account for 70% of the economic activity in the United States; certainly, by transforming the software industry into such will bring no great harm to the pocketbooks of developers as a whole…but its effects on the individual developer can’t be directly determined.

Personally, I hope that the FOSS philosophy and its focus on social  
value is a sign of a general disillusionment with materialism in  
general. Certainly, it can’t hurt to help others through ideas such as  
FOSS. To find out more, check out the [Free Software Foundation’s website](http://www.fsf.org/). Their Resources section is particularly helpful.