---
title: "Lime Odyssey: Nostalgia"
date: 2012-03-06T05:52:00-05:00
description: ""
draft: false
---
So the past couple nights I‚Äôve been playing the alpha test of Lime
Odyssey. This game has been in MMO news for a couple of reasons lately
‚Äì first because the music composer is Yasunori Matsuda, the same
composer responsible for my favorite CRPG of all time, Chrono Trigger.
Secondly, Lime Odyssey recently announced that its Korean version ‚Äì
its progenitor ‚Äì is shutting down due to irreparable bugs.

The latter is pretty ominous, but the North American developer that is
localizing it for us here in the USA is still going strong. And with the
state of the game as it is, I have to say, it‚Äôs worth a good hard
look.

Lime Odyssey may appear at first blush to be a standard Asian MMO, but
it‚Äôs got a few features that set it apart.

It‚Äôs really well polished for a game supposedly in alpha. The
translation is fantastic, and I encountered very few bugs. My only
complaint in the sub-level 10 bracket is the repetitive voice acting for
your character‚Äôs attacks, which isn‚Äôt really a major thing.

The music, as expected, is easily the most memorable I‚Äôve seen in an
Asian MMO. It really harkens back to the heyday of Chrono Trigger and
Final Fantasy III, which makes me as a 90s-era roleplayer very happy.

The grind is pretty light in Lime so far, and I‚Äôm at about level 8 for
my battle class. Usually in Asian MMOs, the grind sets in almost
immediately, so this is a welcome change.

Notice how I specifically mentioned ‚Äúbattle class?‚Äù That‚Äôs because
Lime Odyssey has separate progression for your Battle Class and your
Trade Class. It‚Äôs possible to level one completely independently of
the other, marking a distinctly Western flavor to this MMO. My Trade
Class, Tailor, is higher than my Battle Class, cleric.

Little tip if you get to try out the alpha ‚Äì use your initial talent
point to get a special attack before engaging in combat, otherwise
combat lasts forever.

It‚Äôs worth trying out, if you‚Äôre not yet burned out on Asian MMOs
and have a soft spot for Chrono Trigger or Xenosaga in your heart.